
---PAGE 1---
TOM KLOOTWIJK / JSFD
What you
actually have.
Your goal, the formalization,
the kernels, and the possibilities.
Reflective Binary Field Computing
A readable consolidation of the visible revision history, with a literal
operator-as-SDF construction, tested binary building blocks, and a map
from present-day uses to futuristic applications.
Tom Klootwijk
NL200678942  |  10-07-1990
18 September 2026  ·  Consolidation C1
ELI5 main text  ·  Mathematical appendix  ·  Feasibility companion
Based on recoverable project messages and attachment labels. Original source PDF bodies and
earlier kernel ZIPs were not accessible; new constructions and tests are labeled throughout.
---PAGE 2---
3
4
6
7
9
10
12
13
15
17
19
21
22
25
26
28
32
34
Contents
1. What you actually have now
2. The literal source and revision ledger
3. What your goal was — in your own terms
4. How the revisions fit together
5. The formalization, explained without hiding the mechanism
6. One-bit words, the | symbol, and retained information
7. What the GPU, texture atlas, and cache actually contribute
8. The kernels as supporting feasibility — what was actually checked
9. The numbers in ELI5 language
10. Present-day applications: where this could become useful
11. The nature and substance direction, made literal
12. Where it meets present-day frontier technology
13. Futuristic and science-fiction possibilities, with the missing bridge visible
14. What has been established, what remains a hypothesis
15. The development path and practical handover
Appendix A. The precise mathematical construction
Appendix B. Plain-language glossary
Appendix C. References and evidence register
Reading routes. For the main answer, read sections 1, 3–5, and 9–14. For literal provenance,
read section 2. For what actually ran, read section 8. The equations are collected in Appendix A
so the main explanation remains readable.
Reference key. H = visible history; D = attachment label; E = new code or obtained test
evidence; R = external primary reference; A = construction in the mathematical appendix.
TOM KLOOTWIJK / JSFD CONSOLIDATION C1 • 18 SEP 2026
Reflective Binary Field Computing 2
---PAGE 3---
1. What you actually have now
You have a coherent direction for a field-based computing language and
runtime: a system in which shapes describe not just objects, but also valid
relationships, operations, and changes over time. Its intended engine is a GPU
doing computation, not a renderer producing pictures.
Your repeated requests move toward one central idea: put the description of the problem
and the description of the rules into the same family of representations, then compile their
useful decisions into densely packed binary work. This interpretation comes from your
visible project messages, rather than from an assumption that an SDF project must be
about graphics. [H2–H6]
ELI5: Imagine a huge board of tiny yes/no lights. Some lights describe where things
are. Others describe which combinations are allowed. A rule moves the board from
one state to the next. Your ambition is to describe the board, the rules, and the clock
using the same language, then let the GPU update many lights together.
There are three different things in your hands
The originating direction. The recoverable history establishes your requirements:
signed-distance definitions, one-bit packing, operators represented as fields, logarithmic/
polar lookup layouts, an explicit time operator, self-reference, GPU locality, and broader
uses than calculation or rendering. It also records the traveling-salesman and nature/
substance branches. [H1–H6]
A consolidated technical interpretation. This report makes those requirements
compatible by separating the mathematical meaning of a field from the compact
representation used to execute particular queries. It supplies a concrete operator-as-SDF
construction, a rule-composition model, a time model, and an implementation path. These
are explicitly new consolidating constructions, not quotations from the missing original
formalization PDFs.
A new, limited feasibility companion. The accompanying source package implements
and tests small parts of that interpretation. Its CPU tests pass. It includes CUDA source,
but there was no CUDA compiler or GPU execution facility available here, so there are no
measured results from your laptop. [E1–E3]
The resulting direction, aptly named
A useful descriptive name is JSFD — Reflective Binary Field Computing. Here
“reflective” means that rules can be stored and addressed as data; “binary” describes the
intended compact execution; and “field computing” distinguishes it from a graphics-only
engine. This is a proposed name for the consolidated direction, not a recovered expansion
of “JSFD” from your source files.
TOM KLOOTWIJK / JSFD CONSOLIDATION C1 • 18 SEP 2026
Reflective Binary Field Computing 3
---PAGE 4---
The most defensible summary is: a research architecture with executable building
blocks, not yet a demonstrated end-to-end platform for every proposed
application. That is a meaningful position. The next evidence needed is a complete
compiler/runtime path and a useful application benchmark, not merely more terminology.
2. The literal source and revision
ledger
You asked for the actual formalization, source documents, and kernels to be taken into
account. The distinction between a file being mentioned and its contents being available
matters here.
The accessible project history contains your requests and attachment names. Searching
the uploaded-file index returned no files, and the working directory contained no earlier
PDFs or ZIPs. The earlier assistant-generated formalizations and kernels were therefore
not available for a line-by-line review. This report does not silently replace them with
invented contents.
Scope of this edition: a consolidation of recoverable project intent, a literal ledger
of the visible sources, and new supporting mathematics/code. It is not a verbatim
restoration, a complete source-document synthesis, or a verified diff of the frozen
releases.
Recoverable lineage — 18 September 2026
Record Visible branch and what it establishesWhat is not
recoverable
H1
06:00
Formalize Definition PDF. Request to
formalize your definition, preserve your
identifiers, and incorporate the geometry/
naming source and its enhanced version.
The initial formal
definitions,
diagrams,
equations, and final
PDF .
H2
07:46
Branch · Formalize Definition PDF. Request
for a kernel for your RTX 5070 Ti 12 GB laptop,
ELI5 metrics, and later one-bit packing, log-
polar LUT s, cache/VRAM use, and |.
The delivered
kernel, its build
state, benchmarks,
and any tests.
H3
08:31
V5 FROZEN. Explicit clarification: operators
and expressions should themselves be SDF
definitions; the GPU is the calculating device,
not a renderer. Time and self-reference
become central.
The exact frozen V5
source tree and
mathematical
specification.
TOM KLOOTWIJK / JSFD CONSOLIDATION C1 • 18 SEP 2026
Reflective Binary Field Computing 4
---PAGE 5---
Record Visible branch and what it establishesWhat is not
recoverable
H4
09:32
V5 1bit FROZEN. Reassertion of raw binary
logic, one-bit field maps, bit shifts, and the
same broader architecture.
Whether this
branch changed
storage alone,
operator semantics,
or the full execution
path.
H5
10:13
V6 FROZEN. You reject a mere calculator/
renderer interpretation and insist on the use
cases in the ladybug/traveling-salesman
source.
The full use-case
list inside that PDF
and the delivered
V6 kernel.
H6
10:52
Biochemical geometries. Request to extend
the formalization with the “bromofly…” source
and literal mechanisms found in nature and
substances.
The detailed
chemical
assertions,
biological
mechanisms, and
completed
expanded
formalization.
Times are the branch labels visible in the project context, using the project’s Europe/Amsterdam timezone.
They identify conversation records; they are not release-build timestamps. “Frozen” is preserved as your
branch label, not treated as evidence of tested completeness.
Source-document names actually visible
D1. “men T room a circle a sphere a cone an apex legenda a side view of the pyramid…”
This initial attachment name is truncated in the available history. Its body is absent. It
establishes a geometry/naming origin, not the meaning of each symbol.
D2. “men-T-room-a-circle-a-sphere-a-cone-an-apex-legenda-a-side-view-of-the-pyramid-lower-case-phi-
log-encoded-polar-LUT-binary-search-tree-klein-bottl.pdf”
This is the visible enhanced-source filename. T erms in its name include lower-case phi, log-
encoded polar lookup tables, binary search trees, and a Klein-bottle reference. Their
intended connections cannot be recovered from the name alone.
D3. “ladybug-anti-violence-tile-in-zaandam-at-the-train-station-got-me-to-thinking-about-the-travling-
salesman-NP-hard-problem-where-humans-try-to-solv.pdf”
A space-separated variant is also visible, continuing into “infinity by defining points
instead of signed distance fields and packing thos…”. Both are recorded as visible labels,
not assumed to be byte-identical versions. The traveling-salesman and point-versus-field
themes are explicit; an exact application inventory is not.
D4. “bromofly and derivatives in nature insects bug finder 0 day signed distance field notations.pdf”
TOM KLOOTWIJK / JSFD CONSOLIDATION C1 • 18 SEP 2026
Reflective Binary Field Computing 5
---PAGE 6---
The filename is preserved literally. It is not evidence that a named chemical occurs in
nature, that the label uniquely identifies a substance, or that a zero-day vulnerability was
discovered. This report does not assign a molecular identity to “bromofly” or infer an
exploit from the title.
What is credited to whom
The project direction and visible requests are attributed to Tom Klootwijk |
NL200678942 | 10-07-1990, as requested. The synthesis, illustrative formal
construction, and companion code in this edition are newly prepared supporting material.
External references [R1–R16] establish neighboring technology and natural mechanisms;
they are not presented as documents that necessarily appeared in your earlier source set.
3. What your goal was — in your own
terms
The repeated clarifications are more reliable evidence of your goal than a generic
description of what SDF software usually does.
“packing all operators as SDF definitions themselves not a rendering engine but just
using the GPU as a calculating device” [H3–H6]
“all expressions as SDFs as well as 1bit words” [H3–H6]
“where A is T which in of itself is a defined time operator” [H3–H6]
“saturated the rest of the cache with self referential definitions of the formalization” 
[H3–H6]
“I am not looking for a calculator or a rendering engine, but for the usecases defined
in the document” [H5]
The goal reconstructed from those statements
You wanted a common language for objects, relationships, operators, expressions,
and time; a binary representation that avoids floating-point work where it is unnecessary;
and an execution arrangement that keeps reusable information near the GPU’s compute
units. The goal was not simply to make a prettier image of a mathematical surface.
TOM KLOOTWIJK / JSFD CONSOLIDATION C1 • 18 SEP 2026
Reflective Binary Field Computing 6
---PAGE 7---
You also wanted the architecture to become useful beyond its own demonstrations. The
later revisions shift attention from “can this representation execute?” to “can it express
the actual problems and mechanisms I care about?” That is the transition from an
encoding experiment toward a domain-spanning computational framework. [H5–H6]
What should survive consolidation
The field-first description, first-class operators, binary execution, explicit time, and
application-driven tests are central requirements. A particular texture format, a particular
cache arrangement, or a claim that every task should use only OR is an implementation
hypothesis that must be tested against those requirements.
ELI5: The destination is a machine that works from the same kind of “map” for both
things and rules. A packed texture is one possible filing cabinet for those maps. The
filing cabinet is not the destination.
What cannot be silently filled in
The visible history does not define what every geometric symbol means, give a complete
grammar for the original formalization, or enumerate every use case inside D3 and D4. For
example, this report does not assume that φ means the golden ratio rather than an angle
or another project-specific symbol. The mathematical appendix gives a workable new
interpretation of the recoverable architectural requirements without pretending to restore
those missing definitions.
4. How the revisions fit together
Read as a sequence of requirements, the branches form a progression rather than a set of
unrelated ideas. [H1–H6]
Layer What it contributes ELI5
Geometric descriptionsDescribe a set through a rule that answers
spatial questions, rather than only through a
list of sampled points.
Keep the recipe for
the shape, not only
photographs of it.
One-bit representationPack yes/no outcomes and bit planes into
machine words.
Store many tiny
switches in one box.
Operators as fields Describe valid input/output combinations as
regions in a configuration space.
A rule is a map of
which combinations
are allowed.
TOM KLOOTWIJK / JSFD CONSOLIDATION C1 • 18 SEP 2026
Reflective Binary Field Computing 7
---PAGE 8---
Layer What it contributes ELI5
Time and self-referenceStore state transitions and references to
reusable definitions explicitly.
The recipe can refer
to other recipes and
say what happens
next.
Problem-solving Connect representations to paths, constraints,
candidate states, and measurable outcomes.
Use the maps to
answer a useful
question.
Nature and substancesAdd domain-specific geometry, material
properties, interaction rules, and dynamics.
Give the little
switches rules that
approximate a real
mechanism.
A useful architecture has three distinct layers
Meaning. What does a field represent? A distance, a region, an allowed relation, a
concentration, a time transition, or a program definition? These meanings are related but
not interchangeable.
Representation. How is that meaning stored? As an analytic formula, a signed lookup
table, a one-bit mask, several bit planes, or a graph of references? Several representations
can describe the same allowed Boolean outcomes while preserving different amounts of
geometric information.
Execution. Which GPU operations answer the particular query? They might be Boolean
gates, integer address calculations, neighborhood propagation, or a more detailed
numerical solver. Selecting a cheaper representation is useful only when the answer
remains the answer the application needs.
The central design move: retain rich field definitions as the source of meaning,
but execute a compact compiled form whenever its equivalence is established for
the required queries.
This resolves the apparent tension between “everything is an SDF definition” and “the
kernel should not spend its time calculating floating-point distances.” The source definition
can be geometric while a particular compiled query is Boolean. The bridge must specify
which queries it preserves. The next section supplies a literal, testable example.
TOM KLOOTWIJK / JSFD CONSOLIDATION C1 • 18 SEP 2026
Reflective Binary Field Computing 8
---PAGE 9---
5. The formalization, explained
without hiding the mechanism
5.1 A shape answers a question
A signed-distance function, or SDF, answers: “How far is this location from the boundary?”
In the convention used here, the answer is negative inside, zero on the boundary, and
positive outside. A one-bit mask instead answers only: “Inside or outside?” They are
different amounts of information.
An analytic circle can describe a continuous boundary with a small formula. Sampling that
formula onto a finite grid gives a finite approximation. Keeping only each sample’s sign
gives an even smaller representation. These are three stages, not three names for the
same stored data. [A1]
5.2 An operator can literally be a shape
T ake the rule OR: its result is 1 when either input is 1. Write the three bits as a location 
(a,b,c), where c is the proposed result. There are eight possible locations because each of
the three bits is either 0 or 1.
Exactly four are allowed: (0,0,0), (0,1,1), (1,0,1), and (1,1,1). Put a small solid cube around
each allowed location. Make each cube half a unit wide, so the cubes do not touch. Their
union is an ordinary geometric shape with an ordinary Euclidean signed-distance function.
At an allowed location, the SDF is −¼. At a disallowed Boolean location, it is +¾.
Multiplying by four gives exact integer samples −1 and +3. This works for all sixteen
possible two-input Boolean functions. The proof is in A2, and all 128 operator/vertex
combinations were checked against an independent geometric formula. [E1]
ELI5: The correct answers sit inside little rooms. Wrong answers sit outside. T o
execute a rule, ask which proposed answer is inside a room. That is a literal
“operator as a shape,” not just a metaphor.
5.3 Why the GPU can then use bits
For these legal Boolean questions, the sign is enough. The compiler can read the eight
signed samples, identify the valid output for each input pair, and reduce the result to a
four-bit truth table. A packed kernel then applies that rule to 32 independent cases stored
in one 32-bit word.
This compilation preserves the operator’s Boolean behavior exactly. It does not preserve
the complete distance function at every continuous location between the little rooms. The
companion explicitly distinguishes those two claims. The achievement is exact behavior
on a specified finite domain, not compression of arbitrary continuous information into one
bit. [A2; E1]
TOM KLOOTWIJK / JSFD CONSOLIDATION C1 • 18 SEP 2026
Reflective Binary Field Computing 9
---PAGE 10---
5.4 Expressions combine relations
A longer expression connects outputs of one relation to inputs of another. For example,
“first apply rule R, then rule Q” means that some intermediate value must satisfy both
rules. In mathematical language, this is relation composition. In implementation language,
it becomes a graph with typed inputs, outputs, and references. [A3]
A deterministic operator supplies one result for each allowed input. A constraint may allow
several results, or none. A language that stores both must distinguish “execute the one
result” from “search for a satisfying result.” Merely describing the allowed region does not
provide the search strategy.
5.5 Time is a rule about state changes
A time operator says which next state is allowed after the current state. In the companion,
every rule reads the old state, and the results are committed into a new state together. A
rule may refer to its own previous output. That makes feedback meaningful without
requiring a value to be known before it exists.
For example, “next state is NOT current state” makes a bit alternate 0, 1, 0, 1. It is a well-
defined time evolution. As a zero-delay equation, “x = NOT x” has no Boolean solution. An
explicit time convention makes the difference. [A4; E1]
5.6 What self-reference adds
Giving definitions identifiers allows a program to reuse them, inspect their encodings, or
eventually replace them. Storing a copy of an interpreter’s description is a further
possibility. But the description still needs a running interpreter or compiled machine code
to act on it. The current companion demonstrates delayed self-reference in state; it does
not implement a complete self-hosting or self-modifying formalization.
6. One-bit words, the | symbol, and
retained information
One bit per question is not one bit per complete number
A one-bit field is appropriate when the required answer is genuinely binary: occupied/free,
allowed/forbidden, reached/not reached, true/false. When the application needs distance,
concentration, speed, or a cost, it needs more information. One option is to store several
bit planes, each carrying one digit of a fixed-width number.
The companion’s eight-plane adder computes 32 separate eight-bit additions at once
using Boolean gates. It returns the low eight result bits and a carry bit for each case. All
65,536 possible pairs of byte inputs were tested. This demonstrates that a Boolean
implementation can perform exact finite arithmetic; it does not establish that bit-sliced
arithmetic is always faster than the GPU’s native integer instructions. [A5; E1]
TOM KLOOTWIJK / JSFD CONSOLIDATION C1 • 18 SEP 2026
Reflective Binary Field Computing 10
---PAGE 11---
There are three meanings of “|” that must not be mixed
Meaning What it does Consequence
C/C++ bitwise OR a | b sets a bit when either input has that bit
set.
Excellent for joining
compatible
occupancy masks.
Not, by itself, a
universal Boolean
basis.
Geometric union Forms the set of locations inside either shape.Its sign mask is the
OR of compatible
sign masks.
Complete distance
values require more
care.
Sheffer stroke / NAND Sometimes the same-looking symbol denotes
NOT-AND in logic.
NAND alone can
express all Boolean
functions, but it is
not the C/C++ OR
instruction.
With ordinary positive-bit encoding, networks containing only OR, constants, copies, and
routing cannot compute NOT: changing an input from 0 to 1 cannot make such a network’s
output drop from 1 to 0. NAND avoids that limitation. Its elementary completeness
construction is given in A5.
ELI5: “Put the piles together” is a useful instruction. It cannot also mean “take the
opposite” unless another mechanism is present. Using the same symbol does not
make those operations identical.
A sign-correct union is not always an exact distance field
For two overlapping shapes, taking the smaller of their SDF values gives the correct union
membership, but may give the wrong distance inside their overlap. A simple interval
example in A1 shows why: an old internal edge is no longer a boundary of the combined
shape. Packing signs is perfectly valid for membership queries; treating those signs as
preserved physical distances is not.
This distinction keeps the binary direction intact. The right design is not “put floats back
everywhere,” but state which questions need only bits, which need multi-bit
quantities, and which need a reconstructed metric.
TOM KLOOTWIJK / JSFD CONSOLIDATION C1 • 18 SEP 2026
Reflective Binary Field Computing 11
---PAGE 12---
7. What the GPU, texture atlas, and
cache actually contribute
The GPU is a compute device here
CUDA allows kernels to process data without rendering a scene. The companion’s kernels
produce logical states, sums, reachable sets, and lookup results; none requires a camera,
rasterizer, image, or display loop. [R1; E2]
Integer textures are a real implementation option
NVIDIA documents tex1Dfetch with an integer index, and element-type reads can return
integer texels without converting them to normalized floating-point values. The companion
uses that path for signed operator samples and an atlas. Ordinary normalized/filtering
texture operations are not interchangeable with this integer lookup path. [R2]
The implementation first stores all sixteen operators’ signed vertex samples in a texture. A
kernel reads the samples associated with output 1, derives the truth table, and applies it
to a packed word. A second kernel uses the compact truth table directly. Comparing them
tests whether the field representation’s flexibility is worth its lookup overhead for that
workload. [E2]
What the logarithmic/polar idea can mean
A logarithmic radial layout allocates bins by scale: near/far intervals grow multiplicatively
instead of all having the same width. Angular bins describe direction. Such a layout may
be useful when an application values relative distance and direction, but it sacrifices
different detail than a uniform Cartesian grid. It is not a free compression theorem. [A6]
The companion provides a deliberately modest integer log-radius/eight-sector atlas. It
computes a radius bin from the integer squared radius, chooses one of eight angular
sectors, and combines those with one of four time phases. The origin has a separate
convention. There are 1,024 atlas slots; many positions deliberately share a slot. [E2]
This is a newly defined feasibility example, not the recovered full polar LUT from D2. It still
performs integer multiplication, comparisons, and address calculation. A finer
precomputed angular LUT could trade more storage for less runtime calculation, but its
error and memory cost would need to be specified.
“A is T” needs a data contract
Your request makes time part of the representation. A practical interpretation is to use a
channel or metadata field to hold a time-state reference, phase, or transition identifier.
That is different from merely treating an image’s alpha component as a free extra
coordinate. This report preserves the requirement that T be defined as an operator, while
choosing an explicit four-phase address example only for the new demonstrator. [H3–H6;
A4; A6]
TOM KLOOTWIJK / JSFD CONSOLIDATION C1 • 18 SEP 2026
Reflective Binary Field Computing 12
---PAGE 13---
Cache locality is useful; saturation is not the objective
NVIDIA exposes mechanisms that influence persistence in L2, subject to device limits. It
does not promise unlimited residency, and competing working sets can evict one another.
Filling the cache with duplicate definitions can crowd out the data that the current kernel
actually needs. [R3]
A better implementation policy is to keep frequently reused rule tables and active tiles
close to the compute units, while using VRAM for the larger state, alternative candidates,
histories, and less frequently used definitions. The optimization target is useful reuse
and less data movement per answer, not a percentage-full display.
Your stated RTX 5070 Ti Laptop GPU with 12 GB is consistent with NVIDIA’s current product
table. That does not identify your laptop’s power configuration, free VRAM, or sustained
kernel performance. The provided runner queries the actual device and memory
properties instead of assuming those results. [R4; E2]
8. The kernels as supporting
feasibility — what was actually
checked
The companion is titled JSFD consolidation feasibility companion. It is new source
prepared for this report. The historical V5/V6 kernels could not be recovered or inspected.
A request for a kernel, or an earlier statement that one existed, is not substituted for a
test log.
The seven CUDA kernels included
Kernel What it tests What it does not
establish
or_kernel A direct native packed-OR baseline. A complete rule
language or
distance evaluator.
binary_gate_kernel Execution of any of the sixteen two-input truth
tables on packed words.
Efficient handling of
every higher-arity
relation.
relation_texture_kernelRead signed operator samples through an
integer texture and recover the same Boolean
behavior.
Continuous SDF
evaluation or a
universal field
interpreter.
TOM KLOOTWIJK / JSFD CONSOLIDATION C1 • 18 SEP 2026
Reflective Binary Field Computing 13
---PAGE 14---
Kernel What it tests What it does not
establish
bitplane_add_kernel Eight-bit addition using bit planes and Boolean
carry propagation.
A speed advantage
over native integer
arithmetic.
reach_kernel Obstacle-aware propagation through a closed
rectangular grid.
A traveling-
salesman optimizer
or Euclidean
shortest-path
solver.
program_kernel Synchronous state updates from a graph with
delayed feedback.
Self-modifying
programs or self-
hosted compilation.
atlas_kernel Integer log-radius/sector/time indexing and
texture retrieval.
The exact historical
atlas, lossless
geometry, or cache
pinning.
Actual results obtained in this environment
CPU verification Coverage Result
Literal operator SDF
geometry
128 vertex checks: 16 operators × 8 vertices.PASS
Packed Boolean execution262,144 individual lane comparisons against
truth-table results.
PASS
Eight-bit bit-sliced
addition
All 65,536 input pairs, including carry-out.PASS
Packing and partial-word
tails
8,385 round-trip bit comparisons, lengths 0
through 129.
PASS
Grid reachability and
arrival times
180 seeded random maps; 1,943,045 cell/time
comparisons against an independent breadth-
first search.
PASS
Time and delayed
feedback
64 synchronous steps, including a period-two
self-referential rule.
PASS
Coarse atlas addressing66,564 coordinate/phase checks, plus a large-
coordinate boundary check.
PASS
TOM KLOOTWIJK / JSFD CONSOLIDATION C1 • 18 SEP 2026
Reflective Binary Field Computing 14
---PAGE 15---
Source: actual output in evidence/host_results.json [E1]. Compiler: g++ 14.2.0 on Linux x86-64 [E3].
Random seed: 20260918. These are counts of checked cases, not speed, accuracy-on-real-world-data, or
scientific validation scores.
The evidence boundary: CPU compilation and semantic tests were performed.
CUDA compilation and execution were not: no nvcc or nvidia-smi executable was
available. The CUDA source is supplied for testing, not described as an already
successful GPU run.
Why the CPU tests still matter
They show that the finite mathematical construction and packed algorithms produce the
intended results on the tested domains. They catch errors such as bit-order mistakes,
wraparound at grid edges, wrong carry propagation, and ambiguous time updates. The
same core functions are shared with the CUDA source, making this a useful semantic
baseline. Device compilation, memory behavior, scheduling, and performance still need
their own tests.
The independent geometric oracle uses floating-point math only to check the source SDF
formula. The kernel data path remains integer/Boolean. CUDA’s host-side timing API also
reports floating-point milliseconds; this is instrumentation, not floating-point field
arithmetic. [E1–E3]
9. The numbers in ELI5 language
A bit mask can save a lot of space
For a field with N binary answers, packed storage needs approximately N/8 bytes, rounded
up for the final word and any row padding. Storing each answer in a 32-bit float takes 4N
bytes. That is a 32-fold reduction in payload storage for the same binary
information, not a 32-fold speed measurement. [A7]
A 512 × 512 × 512
field Payload size Information
retained
One packed bit per cell16 MiB One yes/no answer.
One byte / eight bit
planes per cell
128 MiB 256 possible states
or eight separate
flags.
One 32-bit float per cell512 MiB A numerical value
with floating-point
range and
precision.
TOM KLOOTWIJK / JSFD CONSOLIDATION C1 • 18 SEP 2026
Reflective Binary Field Computing 15
---PAGE 16---
A 512 × 512 × 512
field Payload size Information
retained
Four one-bit time slices64 MiB Four snapshots of
one binary answer.
Calculated directly: 512³ = 134,217,728 cells; 1 MiB = 1,048,576 bytes. Sizes exclude metadata, padding
beyond this particular grid, program tables, temporary buffers, and allocator overhead.
What 12 GB does and does not mean
An idealized 12 billion-byte budget holds 96 billion bits. An idealized 12 GiB budget holds
about 103.1 billion bits. Neither is a usable whole-system cell count: the runtime, other
applications, program definitions, inputs, outputs, and intermediate states also occupy
memory. The runner reports bytes from the actual device rather than assuming one
convention. [A7; E2]
If each modeled location requires eight bit planes and three state buffers, it consumes 24
bits before other overhead. The same memory then holds only one twenty-fourth as many
modeled locations as a single-bit/single-buffer estimate. Keeping all variables visible
prevents impressive but misleading capacity claims.
Thirty-two bits at once is useful, but not a promised speedup
A 32-bit OR instruction can combine 32 pairs of logical lanes. Real execution also has
loads, stores, addressing, rule decoding, dependencies, and scheduling. A texture lookup
can cost more than the arithmetic it replaces. If a workload is already handled efficiently
by native packed words, adding a geometric interpretation may improve expressiveness
without improving raw speed.
ELI5: Carrying 32 marbles in one box can reduce the number of trips. It does not
make the elevator 32 times faster, and labeling every marble may take extra time.
The comparison that would be meaningful
Measure an end-to-end answer against an equally correct baseline: ordinary GPU bitsets
for binary propagation, native integer arithmetic for finite sums, an established geometry
library for spatial distances, and a suitable optimizer for route quality. Include encoding
and decoding costs. Report both answer quality and total time, not only an isolated inner-
loop instruction count.
The companion’s timing runner reports warm-cache medians for two implementations of
the same OR result. Its computed payload rate counts logical input/output bytes; it is not a
direct measurement of physical DRAM traffic. No performance ratio is filled in before the
GPU run exists. [E2]
TOM KLOOTWIJK / JSFD CONSOLIDATION C1 • 18 SEP 2026
Reflective Binary Field Computing 16
---PAGE 17---
10. Present-day applications: where
this could become useful
This section separates what your messages explicitly establish from new application
translations. The traveling-salesman direction is explicit in D3/H5. The other examples
below are proposed extensions of the architecture, not a recovered list from your
missing PDF .
10.1 Routes, reachability, and constrained movement
ELI5: Flood a maze with ink. The places the ink reaches are connected to the start. The
moment a place first gets wet tells you its shortest step count on a uniform four-neighbor
grid.
The companion already tests that finite version. A useful application could batch many
occupancy maps, candidate starting states, or obstacle variations. For a physical robot,
the field must also account for the robot’s size, orientation, articulation, and permitted
motion. A bit indicating that a point is free is not enough to guarantee that a whole
moving robot fits.
cuRobo is a relevant existing comparison because it exposes robot/world collision-distance
and motion-planning functionality. Its documented signed-distance convention differs from
this report’s convention, illustrating why interface contracts matter. [R5]
Next proof: a fixed set of maps, independently checked paths, obstacle clearance,
update latency, and an ordinary GPU bitset baseline. This would demonstrate a useful
navigation component, not yet a full robot controller.
10.2 Traveling-salesman and scheduling problems
ELI5: A maze asks how to get from one place to another. Traveling-salesman asks how to
visit all the required places in a good order and return. Those are different jobs.
A field representation can encode allowed positions, feasible route fragments, collision
constraints, or collections of candidate solutions. It may accelerate testing and
propagation. But the choice of a visit order, the cost of that order, and the prevention of
disconnected subtours still have to be represented and handled.
Replacing points by fields changes the representation; it does not by itself prove that an
exact search becomes easier. A specific algorithm could improve practical performance, so
the right experiment measures route quality and total cost of obtaining it. Concorde
provides a relevant exact symmetric-TSP reference. [R16; A3]
Next proof: small instances with known optima, then larger matched instances; disclose
whether the method is exact, heuristic, or approximate. The current wavefront kernel is
supporting infrastructure, not this optimizer.
TOM KLOOTWIJK / JSFD CONSOLIDATION C1 • 18 SEP 2026
Reflective Binary Field Computing 17
---PAGE 18---
10.3 Design spaces, collision envelopes, and manufacturability
ELI5: Instead of checking one design at a time, mark whole regions of designs as allowed
or forbidden.
Examples include fitting components into an enclosure, reserving clearance around
moving parts, or screening coarse candidate geometries before detailed analysis. Packed
masks can cheaply eliminate impossible candidates. A later metric stage can recover
distances, tolerances, and surface quality for the survivors.
NanoVDB is relevant prior technology for compact GPU-accessible volumetric data and
collision-related workflows. It demonstrates that field representations can be practical
without establishing that this new architecture outperforms them. [R6]
Next proof: compare the same geometric queries at the same spatial resolution,
including false-free and false-blocked classifications near thin features. Memory savings
that erase a necessary clearance are not useful savings.
10.4 Bounded verification and software testing
ELI5: Treat a program’s possible states as a maze, and ask whether any path reaches a
forbidden room.
Finite relations and bitsets can represent allowed transitions and sets of states. A
prospective JSFD frontend could turn a bounded controller or protocol into that
representation and test reachability of a specified failure condition. “Bug finder 0 day” in
D4 is only a title-level hint; it does not establish that this was the intended mechanism or
that any vulnerability was found.
Next proof: encode a small system with independently known reachable states and
deliberately inserted errors, then compare results with direct enumeration or an
appropriate established verifier. State-space size can grow rapidly; the representation
must expose rather than conceal that cost.
10.5 Local simulation and pattern systems
ELI5: Give each square a small rule about its neighbors, then watch a larger pattern
emerge.
The temporal graph and neighborhood propagation kernels are relevant building blocks.
They could support cellular automata, local constraint relaxation, and toy growth models.
A physically meaningful simulation additionally needs quantities, units, conservation laws
where appropriate, and validation against the phenomenon being modeled.
Next proof: one precisely defined local model with checked updates, known boundary
conditions, and a clear distinction between a binary toy model and a quantitative scientific
model. A simulated pattern can be useful even before it is a faithful account of a natural
mechanism.
TOM KLOOTWIJK / JSFD CONSOLIDATION C1 • 18 SEP 2026
Reflective Binary Field Computing 18
---PAGE 19---
11. The nature and substance
direction, made literal
The nature branch should not reduce to “it looks like an insect, so it must compute like
one.” A literal translation specifies material, geometry, interaction, state, and
observable behavior. The examples here are newly researched connections to H6, not
claims that their detailed mechanisms appeared in D4.
11.1 Pine-cone scales: material geometry that moves with
moisture
Research on pine cones describes moisture transport and the different swelling behavior
of structural regions that produce opening and closing. Cellulosic structure and orientation
matter to the resulting motion. [R11]
Field translation: a shape field describes each scale; a moisture field describes its
internal condition; a material-orientation field helps determine its deformation. The state
update maps moisture changes to a predicted new shape. A yes/no threshold could model
“open enough,” while accurate curvature requires richer quantities.
ELI5: T wo attached layers change size differently when they get wet, so the combined
piece bends. The opportunity is a compact model for responsive geometry, not a claim
that an SDF alone makes an actuator.
11.2 Gecko attachment: tiny contact geometry and interaction
forces
Experiments on gecko setae provide evidence for van der Waals contributions to dry
adhesion, with small contact structures playing a central role. [R12]
Field translation: a shape field describes the contact tips and surface, while separate
material/contact parameters determine the interaction. The system could screen contact
configurations or approximate an adhesion envelope. An SDF supplies geometric
separation; it does not supply the correct adhesive force law by itself.
ELI5: Many tiny contact points behave differently from one large contact point. Geometry
helps decide where contact happens, and the material model decides what that contact
does.
11.3 Slime-mold networks: local adaptation and global
transport
T ero and colleagues reported adaptive networks formed by slime mold with useful trade-
offs between transport efficiency, cost, and fault tolerance, and described a mathematical
model motivated by that behavior. [R10]
TOM KLOOTWIJK / JSFD CONSOLIDATION C1 • 18 SEP 2026
Reflective Binary Field Computing 19
---PAGE 20---
Field translation: candidate links can be represented by masks, while link capacity, flow,
or reinforcement uses additional state. A proposed update can favor useful connections
and let unused ones weaken. The outcome should be evaluated on network cost and
reliability rather than presented as an automatic exact traveling-salesman solution.
ELI5: A transport network can change its own roads using local feedback. That suggests a
family of heuristics, not a shortcut that guarantees the best route for every problem.
11.4 DNA: molecular interactions implementing logical behavior
Qian and Winfree demonstrated digital circuits using DNA strand-displacement
mechanisms, including multilayer logic and a four-bit square-root circuit. Their work
included a hierarchy between circuit descriptions and molecular implementations. [R13]
Field translation: finite logical relations can describe the intended input/output behavior.
A separate physical model must account for binding, competing interactions,
concentrations, and timescales. Your common language could become an intermediate
description shared by a simulator and a future molecular-design backend.
ELI5: The same logical rule can be played by electronic switches or by carefully
engineered molecular interactions. Writing the rule is not the same job as building the
molecules that reliably play it.
11.5 Growth, repair, and reaction-like local updates
Growing Neural Cellular Automata demonstrated learned local update rules that can form
target patterns and, under suitable training, recover from forms of damage. This is
evidence about computational pattern dynamics, not proof of general biological
regeneration. [R9]
Field translation: a JSFD model could store local states in bit planes and describe
candidate rules as relations. A meaningful experiment would test growth, stability, and
recovery after damage. Binary execution of a learned rule is a further compilation
problem; it is not already supplied by the companion’s NOT/XOR time example.
Where molecular shape stops being enough
Substance behavior can depend on forces, charges, bonding, conformations, environment,
and dynamics. OpenMM’s documented force models illustrate the additional numerical
structure involved in molecular simulation. An SDF can contribute geometric questions
such as separation or overlap, but cannot replace all those model terms merely by being
called a field. [R15]
The useful direction is therefore geometry plus explicit interaction and state laws.
That formulation allows serious nature-inspired work without silently equating a
suggestive shape, an actual material, and a validated biological mechanism.
TOM KLOOTWIJK / JSFD CONSOLIDATION C1 • 18 SEP 2026
Reflective Binary Field Computing 20
---PAGE 21---
12. Where it meets present-day
frontier technology
These are independently documented neighboring directions, checked for this report on
18 September 2026. They are evidence that parts of the design space are active and
technically meaningful, not demonstrations of your complete architecture.
Compact neural and volumetric fields
Instant Neural Graphics Primitives uses multiresolution hash encoding with small neural
networks, including an SDF task. It is a concrete example of co-designing representation
and GPU execution. Its learned feature values and numerical computation differ from your
strict binary direction. [R7]
Possible JSFD connection: use a compact learned or analytic field to generate certified
binary decisions for a restricted query set, or use binary masks as a coarse stage before
detailed field evaluation. The test would compare total query cost and error, not assume
that replacing numbers with signs preserves the full task.
Learned logic-gate networks
Convolutional Differentiable Logic Gate Networks, published at NeurIPS 2024, extends
learning methods whose eventual inference is expressed using logic gates such as NAND,
OR, and XOR. This is a close conceptual neighbor to efficient binary execution. [R8]
Possible JSFD connection: learned rules could populate the operator library, with a
compiler mapping them to packed execution. A research question is whether field-based
constraints or geometry improve the training target or explain the result. The current
kernel includes no learning algorithm, and the use of Boolean inference does not imply a
floating-point-free training procedure.
Programmable local dynamics
The neural-cellular-automata work offers a concrete route from local state rules to larger
patterns. [R9] A JSFD implementation could explore whether a restricted, quantized rule
language preserves the desired behavior while lowering storage or inference cost. This
would require a training or rule-search pipeline and an appropriate quality benchmark.
A genuinely current molecular-computing connection
Stérin and colleagues’ A thermodynamically favoured molecular computer was published
online in Nature on 16 September 2026, in the issue dated 17 September 2026. The
paper reports a scaffolded DNA computing system tested on ten programs, including
parity and arithmetic, in which the intended output is thermodynamically favored. [R14]
TOM KLOOTWIJK / JSFD CONSOLIDATION C1 • 18 SEP 2026
Reflective Binary Field Computing 21
---PAGE 22---
Why it matters here: it is a literal example of designing a physical system so that
allowed configurations and dynamics implement computation. The connection to your
direction is conceptual: a field/rule description might become a simulation or compilation
layer for such a system. Your GPU software does not thereby inherit its physical behavior,
energy characteristics, or experimental results.
Source review for R14 used the article’s parsed text and bibliographic information. The publisher’s PDF
screenshot endpoint failed; no figure-based measurements are used in this report.
The strongest research intersection
Common descriptions, multiple backends: one typed relation/field language
could target a packed GPU interpreter today, a specialized logic circuit later, and
eventually a separately validated physical implementation. The difficult and
potentially valuable contribution is the correctness-preserving translation between
those levels.
That is a more specific opportunity than “an SDF replaces all computing.” It gives the
project a measurable target: demonstrate that a useful class of problems can move
through the shared language with less storage, less repeated work, or better
interoperability than the alternatives.
13. Futuristic and science-fiction
possibilities, with the missing bridge
visible
The distinction here is not “impossible because futuristic.” It is the difference between a
possibility supported by current ingredients, a research program requiring new
integrations, and a story whose essential physical mechanism has not been specified.
Possibility How this direction could contributeWhat still has to
exist
A programmable
digital world
One representation for geometry, allowed
interactions, local rules, and time. Visualization
can be a separate consumer.
A complete
language, scalable
runtime, content
tools, meaningful
physics or game
rules, and
debugging.
TOM KLOOTWIJK / JSFD CONSOLIDATION C1 • 18 SEP 2026
Reflective Binary Field Computing 22
---PAGE 23---
Possibility How this direction could contributeWhat still has to
exist
A self-repairing virtual
material
Local rule fields that recover a target structure
after virtual damage.
A successful
learned or designed
repair rule, stability
tests, and clear
limits on the
damage it can
repair.
A shape-changing
robotic material
A compiler/simulator describing desired
configurations and local coordination.
Physical modules,
power, sensing,
communication,
actuation,
tolerances, and
distributed control.
An inverse-design
laboratory
Search through geometry and rule
combinations for a desired behavior, rejecting
impossible candidates quickly.
Validated physical
models, a search
method, objective
functions, and
experimental
checks.
One program on GPU,
FPGA, or custom
silicon
Finite relations can be lowered to Boolean
circuitry as well as software kernels.
Backend-specific
compilers, resource
models, timing
closure, and
equivalence tests.
A molecular-computing
frontend
Describe the logical behavior in a common
intermediate form before a physical backend is
chosen.
A chemistry-specific
compiler and
measured
reliability,
selectivity,
throughput, and
readout.
A rich “holodeck”
simulation
The computation layer could provide a
coherent world state to visual and interactive
systems.
Display, optics,
tracking, haptics,
and physical force
generation. The
field definition
alone supplies none
of these.
TOM KLOOTWIJK / JSFD CONSOLIDATION C1 • 18 SEP 2026
Reflective Binary Field Computing 23
---PAGE 24---
Possibility How this direction could contributeWhat still has to
exist
A large autonomous
planning system
Spatial memory, constraints, candidate-state
propagation, and rule representations could be
components.
Learning, models,
objectives,
uncertainty
handling,
interfaces, and
evidence of actual
intelligent behavior.
The near-to-far progression
Closest to the current code: bitset computations, finite rule networks, toy local
dynamics, and coarse reachability. These already have well-defined small demonstrations
in the companion.
Next integration step: an application-specific field language and compiler that make
those kernels useful without manually wiring every test. This is where the project could
begin to function as a real tool rather than a collection of kernels.
Further research: learned rule discovery, richer physical models, inverse design, and
equivalent backends. These add new scientific and engineering content, not just more
VRAM.
Physical science-fiction scale: programmable matter, autonomous repair of real
structures, and large distributed synthetic systems. The architecture could be a modeling
or programming contribution, but the physical devices and validated mechanisms remain
separate achievements.
What does not follow merely from the notation
Self-reference does not establish consciousness. Compact formulas do not provide infinite
memory. A symbolic time operator does not manipulate physical time. A finite-state
simulator does not create matter or energy. A geometric problem encoding does not, by
itself, supply an efficient optimizer. These statements identify missing mechanisms; they
do not prevent research into a specific, testable mechanism.
ELI5: A language for describing buildings can help design a remarkable city. It is still
necessary to build the roads, power stations, and buildings. Your direction could
become a common design language for computational systems; each physical
application must supply its own machinery.
TOM KLOOTWIJK / JSFD CONSOLIDATION C1 • 18 SEP 2026
Reflective Binary Field Computing 24
---PAGE 25---
14. What has been established, what
remains a hypothesis
Claim Status in this edition Needed for the
next level
The intended project is
broader than rendering.
Established by your visible requests. [H3–
H6]
No further inference
is needed about
that intent.
Finite Boolean operators
can be given literal SDF
definitions.
Constructed and checked here for all two-
input Boolean functions. [A2; E1]
Expand to the
required typed
operators without
impractical table
growth.
The defined Boolean
queries can run on
packed words.
CPU-tested here. CUDA source supplied. [E1–
E2]
GPU build,
execution, and
profiling.
The original V5/V6 kernels
prove feasibility.
Not assessable from the accessible
record. Their code and logs are absent.
Exact source
artifacts, build
information, and
reproducible tests.
The full formalization
compiles into a general
runtime.
Architecture proposal. No full parser,
compiler, or self-hosted interpreter is included.
An end-to-end
example generated
from the actual
language.
Log-polar storage is
better than other layouts.
Workload-dependent hypothesis. The
coarse atlas has defined behavior, not a
demonstrated advantage.
Equal-quality
comparisons
against Cartesian,
tiled, sparse, and
alternative layouts.
Cache/VRAM saturation
improves performance.
Not demonstrated. Useful reuse, not
occupancy alone, is the relevant target.
Measured cache
behavior, traffic,
occupancy, and
end-to-end latency.
The method solves
traveling-salesman
instances effectively.
Application direction. No TSP optimizer is in
the companion.
A defined solver,
route-quality
results, and suitable
baselines.
The nature branch
predicts real substance
behavior.
Modeling direction. Natural mechanisms are
referenced, not simulated or experimentally
reproduced here.
Calibrated models,
correct units, and
independent
physical validation.
TOM KLOOTWIJK / JSFD CONSOLIDATION C1 • 18 SEP 2026
Reflective Binary Field Computing 25
---PAGE 26---
What may be distinctive
The candidate contribution is the specific integration: fields as a shared language for
geometry and relations, compact query-preserving compilation, temporal/reflexive
definitions, and GPU-aware layouts. The individual ingredients have neighbors in existing
field methods, logic networks, local automata, and GPU data structures. [R1; R6–R9]
This report does not establish a historical priority claim or verified uniqueness. T o establish
a technical distinction, specify what this combination does that the closest alternatives do
not, then demonstrate it under controlled comparison.
A useful success criterion
The most informative first result would be a real problem expressed once in the proposed
language, compiled automatically, run correctly on the GPU, and compared with a strong
baseline including translation costs. Even one such case would support the architecture
more directly than a large catalog of speculative applications.
15. The development path and
practical handover
Step 1 — preserve the source lineage
Maintain a separate source archive for D1–D4, each formalization revision, and each
original kernel ZIP . Record filenames, hashes, dates, and which document changes which
definition. Keep the frozen V5/V6 labels intact. This edition should be labeled 
Consolidation C1, not silently called a verified V7 or replacement for the absent
originals.
Step 2 — write the smallest complete language contract
Specify field types, sign conventions, coordinate domains, physical units where relevant,
bit ordering, operator interfaces, expression composition, time updates, and the meaning
of cyclic references. Include an example that begins as a source expression and ends as a
checked output. The appendix is a starting construction, not a substitute for recovering
project-specific symbols from D1/D2.
Step 3 — run the companion on the laptop
The ZIP contains CPU tests, CUDA source, CMake configuration, and a README. The CPU
default requires a C++17 compiler. The optional GPU build requires a compatible CUDA
toolkit and host compiler; it detects the available GPU through the native architecture
setting. [E2]
TOM KLOOTWIJK / JSFD CONSOLIDATION C1 • 18 SEP 2026
Reflective Binary Field Computing 26
---PAGE 27---
cmake -S . -B build -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
cmake --build build --config Release
ctest --test-dir build -C Release --output-on-failure
cmake -S . -B build-gpu -DJSFD_BUILD_CUDA=ON \
  -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
cmake --build build-gpu --config Release
./build-gpu/jsfd_cuda 262144 > gpu_results.txt
These are Linux/WSL-style run paths. The README includes Windows multi-configuration executable paths.
The numeric argument is a count of 32-bit words, not bytes. The runner does not fill all VRAM.
Step 4 — turn one application into the first complete vertical
test
For the recoverable direction, a constraint/reachability task is a sensible proposed first
target: its correct outputs can be checked exactly, and its binary representation is natural.
Then connect it to route-candidate screening or a small domain-specific model. Keep that
choice distinct from claiming it was the complete original use-case list.
A benchmark report should include the source problem, compiled representation size,
preprocessing time, kernel time, output decoding time, peak memory, correctness or
approximation error, and hardware/software versions. Measure direct packed baselines as
well as more elaborate field implementations.
Step 5 — test the architecture’s signature features
Compare field-texture interpretation with compiled gates, log-polar layout with other
layouts, and compact references with duplicated definitions. Add temporal histories and
rule changes only after their semantics are explicit. This isolates which proposed features
help rather than treating all revisions as a single untestable bundle.
What is delivered with this report
The PDF: your goal, the visible source/revision ledger, an ELI5 explanation, a new literal
mathematical construction, current application connections, the nature branch, future
possibilities, and an evidence inventory.
The ZIP: source for the new finite demonstrators and seven CUDA kernels, a build/run
guide, actual CPU results, environment information, and a hash manifest. It does not
contain the unavailable original source PDFs or earlier kernels.
TOM KLOOTWIJK / JSFD CONSOLIDATION C1 • 18 SEP 2026
Reflective Binary Field Computing 27
---PAGE 28---
Appendix A. The precise
mathematical construction
This appendix makes the plain-language account checkable. These equations
are new consolidating definitions for this edition, not a transcription of missing
prior PDFs.
A1. Geometric fields and their signs
Let S be a nonempty proper regular closed subset of Euclidean space with nonempty
boundary. Define:
dS(x) = −dist(x, ∂S) for x ∈ S;
dS(x) = +dist(x, ∂S) for x ∉ S.
The sign mask on chosen sample locations is:
MS(x) = 1 when dS(x) ≤ 0, and 0 otherwise.
Boundary inclusion is explicit. The operator construction below has no sample centers on a
boundary, so using < 0 there gives the same Boolean classification.
On the same sample domain, union membership satisfies M(S ∪ Q) = M(S) OR M(Q). This
statement preserves membership, not all distances. For example, take S = [−2,1] and Q =
[−1,2]. At x = 0, both distances are −1, while the distance to their union [−2,2] is −2.
Thus the minimum of the two input SDF values is not the exact union distance at that
location.
A2. A literal SDF for every two-input Boolean operator
Let f:{0,1}² → {0,1}. Its valid relation is:
Rf = { (a,b,c) ∈ {0,1}³ : c = f(a,b) }.
Around each vertex v ∈ Rf, place the axis-aligned closed cube:
Cv = v + [−¼, ¼]³,
Sf = ⋃v ∈ Rf Cv.
TOM KLOOTWIJK / JSFD CONSOLIDATION C1 • 18 SEP 2026
Reflective Binary Field Computing 28
---PAGE 29---
These cubes are separated: distinct Boolean vertices differ by one unit in at least one
coordinate, while each cube extends only one quarter-unit in either direction. For q = |x −
v| − (¼,¼,¼), the cube SDF is:
dCv(x) = ‖max(q,0)‖2 + min(max(q1,q2,q3),0).
Because the cubes are disjoint and separated, their union has exact SDF:
Ff(x) = minv ∈ Rf dCv(x).
At a valid vertex, x lies at the center of its cube, so Ff(x) = −¼. At an invalid Boolean
vertex, changing only c gives a valid vertex one unit away. The closest point on that cube
is ¾ unit away. No valid cube is closer, because every different Boolean center differs by
at least one unit in some coordinate. Therefore:
4Ff(a,b,c) = −1 if c = f(a,b);
4Ff(a,b,c) = +3 otherwise.
This gives exact integer samples of a literal Euclidean SDF . Number the vertices by v = 4a +
2b + c. The output truth table is recovered from the signs at vertices with c = 1:
Lf = Σa,b ∈ {0,1} 22a+b · 1[Ff(a,b,1) < 0].
The resulting four-bit number determines every legal Boolean query. The companion
independently checks the box formula and the recovered truth table for all sixteen f. The
construction proves representability; it does not claim geometric evaluation is the fastest
way to execute a gate.
A3. Expressions, relations, and the cost of projection
For finite domains X,Y,Z, let R ⊆ X×Y and Q ⊆ Y×Z. Composition is:
(Q ∘ R)(x,z) ⇔ ∃y ∈ Y : R(x,y) ∧ Q(y,z).
In words: there is a connecting intermediate value that both rules allow. If R and Q are
total deterministic functions, execution follows their unique outputs. If they are general
constraints, finding or enumerating suitable y may require search. A sign field for the
allowed tuples is a representation of this relation, not a proof of efficient projection.
TOM KLOOTWIJK / JSFD CONSOLIDATION C1 • 18 SEP 2026
Reflective Binary Field Computing 29
---PAGE 30---
A raw truth table for k input bits has 2k entries. For a function of two n-bit numbers, there
are 22n input combinations before storing the outputs. Structured circuits, shared
subexpressions, sparse relations, and domain-specific decomposition are therefore
essential. Storing every allowed combination is not the proposed general implementation.
A4. State, time, and reflective definitions
A proposed typed machine state is:
Σt = (Xt, Pt, At, t),
Σt+1 = T(Σt).
X holds data fields; P holds definitions/program references; A describes address maps and
lookup payloads; t is the logical step. A transition can itself be expressed as a relation
RT(Σ,Σ′). The companion restricts this model: P is fixed, all nodes read Xt, and all outputs
form Xt+1. It does not evolve the full definition store.
For node i with input references a(i), b(i) and truth table L(i):
Xt+1[i] = Eval(L(i), Xt[a(i)], Xt[b(i)]).
Self-reference a(i)=i is valid because it reads the previous time step. Every finite
deterministic closed state system eventually repeats a state, but it need not settle to a
fixed point; cycles are allowed. A repeating phase index is not an unbounded physical
clock.
For actual reflective execution, additional operations would need to encode, decode,
inspect, and update P while preserving valid types and references. They are a specified
future language feature, not something caused by placing bytes in cache.
A5. Packed execution and a complete Boolean basis
For four-bit truth table L, define mj to be an all-zero or all-one word depending on bit j of L.
For packed input words A and B:
Eval(L,A,B) = (¬A ∧ ¬B ∧ m0) ∨ (¬A ∧ B ∧ m1)
∨ (A ∧ ¬B ∧ m2) ∨ (A ∧ B ∧ m3).
Each word bit is an independent lane. No cross-lane carry occurs in these logical
operations. Multi-bit addition uses separate planes and explicit carry:
TOM KLOOTWIJK / JSFD CONSOLIDATION C1 • 18 SEP 2026
Reflective Binary Field Computing 30
---PAGE 31---
pk = ak XOR bk;
sk = pk XOR ck;
ck+1 = (ak AND bk) OR (pk AND ck), with c0 = 0.
If the desired universal symbol is NAND, write N(a,b)=NOT(a AND b). Then NOT(a)=N(a,a),
AND(a,b)=N(N(a,b),N(a,b)), and OR(a,b)=N(N(a,a),N(b,b)). This proves a complete Boolean
basis. It does not make C/C++ | mean NAND.
A6. Log-radius addressing and metric bookkeeping
For the new companion, x and y are signed integers with |x|,|y| ≤ 230. Compute r²=x²+y²
in a 64-bit unsigned range. For r²>0:
ring = 1 + ⌊⌊log2(r²)⌋ / 2⌋;
address = ((phase · 32 + ring) · 8) + sector.
The integer implementation obtains the inner logarithm by shifts. phase=t modulo 4;
sector is one of eight octants selected by signs and coordinate comparisons. At the origin,
ring=0 and sector=0. The code defines ties on axes and diagonals deterministically. The
representation is intentionally many-to-one.
For a continuous conceptual map with ρ=ln r and angle θ, Euclidean length is:
ds² = e2ρ(dρ² + dθ²).
Thus ordinary distance in the (ρ,θ) grid is not Euclidean distance in the original plane. Any
use of polar/logarithmic sampling for physical distance or derivatives must account for
that metric and its discretization. Addressing alone does not preserve it.
A7. Memory accounting
A dense one-bit sequence of N entries uses 4⌈N/32⌉ bytes in 32-bit words. A row-padded
W×H grid uses 4H⌈W/32⌉ bytes per plane. With B bit planes and K state buffers, multiply
that amount by BK before adding metadata and temporaries.
The exact 512³ example in section 9 has no partial-word waste because 512 is divisible by
32. The nominal ratio to one 32-bit value per cell is 32/B for B bit planes, assuming equal
numbers of buffers and ignoring other overhead.
TOM KLOOTWIJK / JSFD CONSOLIDATION C1 • 18 SEP 2026
Reflective Binary Field Computing 31
---PAGE 32---
Appendix B. Plain-language glossary
Term Readable meaning
Field A rule or stored map that assigns information to a location
or configuration.
Signed-distance function / SDF A distance to a boundary, with the sign distinguishing
inside from outside.
Implicit description A definition that answers whether a location belongs to a
shape instead of listing every surface point.
Occupancy/sign mask A yes/no version of a field. It does not store how far
something is from a boundary.
Relation A list or rule describing which combinations of values are
allowed.
Configuration space A space whose coordinates describe a complete candidate
situation, not necessarily a physical position.
Operator as a field An allowed region encoding a rule’s correct input/output
combinations.
Truth table The output of a Boolean rule for every possible input
combination.
Bit packing Storing multiple independent yes/no values in one
machine word.
Bit slicing / bit planes Putting the same binary digit of many numbers together so
gates can process them in parallel.
Lookup table / LUT Stored answers retrieved by an index instead of
recomputed each time.
Atlas An organized collection of fields or table regions, together
with a rule for addressing them.
Log-polar A layout using direction and multiplicative distance scales
rather than ordinary equal-width x/y spacing.
Kernel A function launched to run many pieces of work on a GPU.
VRAM The GPU’s larger device-memory store.
TOM KLOOTWIJK / JSFD CONSOLIDATION C1 • 18 SEP 2026
Reflective Binary Field Computing 32
---PAGE 33---
Term Readable meaning
Cache A smaller, faster store for data the hardware expects to
use again.
Compiler A translator from a source description to instructions or
another executable representation.
Interpreter A running program that reads and executes encoded rules.
Reflection A program’s ability to represent or inspect descriptions of
its own rules.
Delayed self-reference A rule referring to its own value from a previous step.
Fixed point A state that remains unchanged when the update rule is
applied.
Heuristic A method intended to find useful solutions without
necessarily proving the best possible answer.
Backend The particular execution target: a CPU, GPU, circuit, or
separately engineered physical system.
One-sentence conclusion: Your direction is a common field language for things,
rules, and change, with compact binary execution as its intended practical engine;
the key next achievement is a useful end-to-end application whose correctness and
cost can be measured.
TOM KLOOTWIJK / JSFD CONSOLIDATION C1 • 18 SEP 2026
Reflective Binary Field Computing 33
---PAGE 34---
Appendix C. References and evidence
register
All external sources were consulted for this consolidation on 18 September 2026. These
references support specific neighboring methods and mechanisms, not the performance of
the JSFD companion. No third-party source PDF is reproduced or bundled.
Project and newly generated evidence
H1–H6: visible project conversation records described in section 2. D1–D4: visible
attachment labels only; original document bodies unavailable.
E1:evidence/host_results.json, actual CPU verification results. E2:include/jsfd_core.hpp, 
tests/host_tests.cpp, src/cuda_demo.cu, CMakeLists.txt, and README.md, newly prepared source. 
E3:evidence/environment.txt, compiler and execution-environment record. All E-items are in
the companion ZIP .
External primary references
[R1] NVIDIA. CUDA Programming Guide. Current guide, updated 10 September 2026. 
Open source.
Primary documentation for CUDA as a general GPU-computing platform.
[R2] NVIDIA. CUDA C++ Programming Guide 12.8.1, texture memory and tex1Dfetch
sections. Open source.
Version-pinned API reference for integer-index texture reads and element-type return values.
[R3] NVIDIA. CUDA Programming Guide, §4.14: L2 Cache Control. Open source.
Primary documentation for persisting-access policies, limits, and cache contention.
[R4] NVIDIA. GeForce RTX 50 Series Laptop GPUs — specifications. Open source.
Current product table consulted 18 September 2026; lists RTX 5070 Ti Laptop with 12 GB GDDR7.
[R5] cuRobo. Using in Python — Collision Checking. Open source.
Primary documentation for robot/world collision queries; note its documented sign convention.
[R6] Braithwaite, W., and Museth, K. Accelerating OpenVDB on GPUs with NanoVDB.
NVIDIA T echnical Blog, 20 August 2020. Open source.
Author/developer description of GPU-oriented volumetric data structures.
[R7] Müller, T., Evans, A., Schied, C., and Keller, A. Instant Neural Graphics Primitives with
a Multiresolution Hash Encoding. ACM TOG / SIGGRAPH, 2022. Open source.
Authors’ project page; DOI: 10.1145/3528223.3530127.
[R8] Petersen, F ., Kuehne, H., Borgelt, C., Welzel, J., and Ermon, S. Convolutional
Differentiable Logic Gate Networks. NeurIPS 2024. Open source.
Primary proceedings abstract describing Boolean-gate inference.
TOM KLOOTWIJK / JSFD CONSOLIDATION C1 • 18 SEP 2026
Reflective Binary Field Computing 34
---PAGE 35---
[R9] Mordvintsev, A., Randazzo, E., Niklasson, E., and Levin, M. Growing Neural Cellular
Automata. Distill, 2020. Open source.
Primary interactive research article on learned growth and damage-recovery dynamics.
[R10] T ero, A., et al. Rules for Biologically Inspired Adaptive Network Design. Science 327,
439–442, 2010. Open source.
Authors’ institutional record and abstract; DOI: 10.1126/science.1177894.
[R11] Song, K., et al. Journey of water in pine cones. Scientific Reports 5, 9963, 2015. 
Open source.
Primary article on water transport and pine-cone mechanics; DOI: 10.1038/srep09963.
[R12] Autumn, K., et al. Evidence for van der Waals adhesion in gecko setae. PNAS 99,
12252–12256, 2002. Open source.
Primary article bibliographic record; DOI: 10.1073/pnas.192252799.
[R13] Qian, L., and Winfree, E. Scaling Up Digital Circuit Computation with DNA Strand
Displacement Cascades. Science 332, 1196–1201, 2011. Open source.
Authors’ institutional record and abstract; DOI: 10.1126/science.1200520.
[R14] Stérin, T., Eshra, A., Evans, C. G., Adio, J., and Woods, D. A thermodynamically
favoured molecular computer. Nature, published online 16 September 2026. Open source.
Primary article text; issue dated 17 September 2026. DOI: 10.1038/s41586-026-10996-5. T ext-based review,
not figure measurements.
[R15] OpenMM. User Guide, Standard Forces. Current documentation consulted 18
September 2026. Open source.
Primary documentation illustrating force, interaction, and parameter structure in molecular modeling.
[R16] University of Waterloo. Concorde TSP Solver — project home. Open source.
Primary project reference for an exact symmetric traveling-salesman baseline.
TOM KLOOTWIJK / JSFD CONSOLIDATION C1 • 18 SEP 2026
Reflective Binary Field Computing 35